---
title: Clock and the algorithm
---

# Clocks

Original `Animated` API makes an "animation" object a first class citizen.
`Animation` object has many features and therefore requires quite a few JS<>Native bridge methods to be managed properly.
In `react-native-reanimated`, clocks aim to replace that by providing more of a low level abstraction but also since clock nodes behave much like the animated values they make the implementation much less complex.

[`Animated.Clock`](#clocks) node is a special type of `Animated.Value` that can be updated in each frame to the timestamp of the current frame. When we take `Clock` node as an input, the value it returns is the current frame timestamp in milliseconds. Using special methods, clock nodes can be stopped and started and we can also test if clock has been started.

Because `Animated.Clock` just extends the `Animated.Value` you can use it in the same places (operations) where you can pass any type of animated node.

## At most once evaluation (the algorithm)

Unlike the original `Animated` library where each node could have been evaluated many times within a single frame, `react-native-reanimated` restricts each node to be evaluated at most once in a frame.
This restriction is required for nodes that have side-effects to be used (e.g. [`set`](#set) or [`startClock`](#startClock)).
When node is evaluated (e.g. in case of an [`add`](#add) node we want to get a sum of the input nodes) its value is cached. If within the next frame there are other nodes that want to use the output of that node instead of evaluating we return cached value.
This notion also helps with performance as we can try to evaluate as few nodes as expected.
The current algorithm for making decisions of which nodes to evaluate works as follows:
 1. for each frame we first analyze the generated events (e.g. touch stream). It is possible that events may update some animated values.
 2. Then we update values that correspond to [clock](#clocks) nodes that are "running".
 3. We traverse the node's tree starting from the nodes that have been updated in the current cycle and we look for final nodes that are connected to views.
 4. If we found nodes connected to view properties we evaluate them. This can recursively trigger evaluation for their input nodes etc.
 5. After everything is done we check if some "running" clocks exists. If so we enqueue a callback to be evaluated with the next frame and start over from pt 1. Otherwise we do nothing.
