---
title: Base nodes
---

# Math

## `abs`

```js
abs(node);
```

Evaluates the given node and returns an absolute value of the node's value.

## `add`

```js
add(nodeOrNumber1, nodeOrNumber2, ...)
```

Takes two or more animated nodes or values, and when evaluated, returns their sum.

## `ceil`

```js
ceil(node);
```

Returns a node that rounds a number up to its nearest integer. If the passed argument is an integer, the value will not be rounded.

## `diff`

```js
diff(node);
```

Evaluates node and returns a difference between value returned at the last time it was evaluated and its value at the current time. When evaluating for the first time it returns the node's value.

## `diffClamp`

Works the same way as with the original `Animated` library.

## `divide`

```js
divide(nodeOrNumber1, nodeOrNumber2, ...)
```

Takes two or more animated nodes or values, and when evaluated, returns the result of dividing their values in the exact order.

## `exp`

```js
exp(node);
```

Returns an exponent of the value of the given node.

## `floor`

```js
floor(node);
```

Returns a node that rounds a number down to its nearest integer. If the passed argument is an integer, the value will not be rounded.

## `log`

```js
log(nodeOrNumber);
```

The log of the given node.

## `max`

```js
max(nodeOrValue1, nodeOrValue2);
```

Takes two nodes as an input and returns a maximum of all the node's values.

## `min`

```js
min(nodeOrValue1, nodeOrValue2);
```

Takes two nodes as an input and returns a minimum of all the node's values.

## `modulo`

```js
modulo(nodeOrNumber, nodeOrNumber);
```

Remainder after division of the first argument by the second one. modulo(a,0) will throw an error.

## `multiply`

```js
multiply(nodeOrNumber1, nodeOrNumber2, ...)
```

Takes two or more animated nodes or values, and when evaluated, returns the result of multiplying their values in the exact order.

## `pow`

```js
pow(nodeOrNumber1, nodeOrNumber2, ...)
```

Takes two or more animated nodes or values, and when evaluated, returns the result of first node to the second node power. If more than two nodes are present, the result from the previous step is used as a base and the third node as exponent. This process continues onward for the following nodes if these are present.

## `round`

```js
round(node);
```

Returns a node that rounds input value to the nearest integer.

## `sqrt`

```js
sqrt(nodeOrNumber);
```

The square root of the given node. If the number is negative, an error is thrown.

## `sub`

```js
sub(nodeOrNumber1, nodeOrNumber2, ...)
```

Takes two or more animated nodes or values, and when evaluated, returns the result of subtracting their values in the exact order.

# Trigonometry

## `acos`

```js
acos(node);
```

Returns a arc-cosine of the value in radians of the given node

## `asin`

```js
asin(node);
```

Returns a arc-sine of the value in radians of the given node

## `atan`

```js
atan(node);
```

Returns a arc-tangent of the value in radians of the given node

## `cos`

```js
cos(node);
```

Returns a cosine of the value (in radians) of the given node

## `sin`

```js
sin(node);
```

Returns a sine of the value (in radians) of the given node.

## `tan`

```js
tan(node);
```

Returns a tangent of the value in radians of the given node

# Logical expressions

## `and`

```js
and(nodeOrValue1, ...)
```

Acts as a logical `AND` operator. Takes one or more nodes as an input and evaluates them in sequence until some node evaluates to a "falsy" value. Then returns that value and stops evaluating further nodes. If all nodes evaluate to a "truthy" it returns the last node's value.

## `eq`

```js
eq(nodeOrValueA, nodeOrValueB);
```

Returns `1` if the value of both nodes are equal. Otherwise returns `0`.

## `greaterOrEq`

```js
greaterOrEq(nodeOrValueA, nodeOrValueB);
```

Returns `1` if the value of the first node is greater or equal to the value of the second node. Otherwise returns `0`.

## `greaterThan`

```js
greaterThan(nodeOrValueA, nodeOrValueB);
```

Returns `1` if the value of the first node is greater than the value of the second node. Otherwise returns `0`.

## `lessOrEq`

```js
lessOrEq(nodeOrValueA, nodeOrValueB);
```

Returns `1` if the value of the first node is less or equal to the value of the second node. Otherwise returns `0`.

## `lessThan`

```js
lessThan(nodeOrValueA, nodeOrValueB);
```

Returns `1` if the value of the first node is less than the value of the second node. Otherwise returns `0`.

## `neq`

```js
neq(nodeOrValueA, nodeOrValueB);
```

Returns `1` if the value of the first node is not equal to the value of the second node. Otherwise returns `0`.

## `not`

```js
not(node);
```

Returns `1` if the given node evaluates to a "falsy" value and `0` otherwise.

## `or`

```js
or(nodeOrValue1, ...)
```

Acts as a logical `OR` operator. Takes one or more nodes as an input and evaluates them in sequence until some node evaluates to a "truthy" value. Then returns that value and stops evaluating further nodes. If all nodes evaluate to a "falsy" value it returns the last node's value.

# Clock

## `clockRunning`

```js
clockRunning(clockNode);
```

For a given `Clock` node, it returns `1` if the clock [has been started](start-clock.html) (if it's updating each frame) or returns `0` otherwise.

## `startClock`

```js
startClock(clockNode);
```

When evaluated, it will make `Clock` node passed as an argument start updating its value each frame. Then returns `0`.

## `stopClock`

```js
stopClock(clockNode);
```

When evaluated, it will make `Clock` node passed as an argument stop updating its value (if it has been doing that). Then returns `0`.

# Others

## `acc`

```js
acc(node);
```

Returns an accumulated value of the given node. This node stores a sum of all evaluations of the given node and each time it gets evaluated it would add current node's value to that sum and return it.

## `block`

```js
block([node1, ...])
```

Takes an array of nodes and evaluates all of them in the order they are put in the array. It then returns the value of the last node.

## `call`

```js
call(argsNodes, callback);
```

If one of the nodes from `argsNodes` array updates, `callback` will be called in JavaScript with a list of current values of nodes from `argsNodes` array as the first argument.

## `color`

```js
color(red, green, blue, alpha);
```

Creates a color node in RGBA format, where the first three input nodes should have _integer_ values in the range 0-255 (consider using `round` node if needed) and correspond to color components Red, Green and Blue respectively. Last input node should have a value between 0 and 1 and represents alpha channel (value `1` means fully opaque and `0` completely transparent). Alpha parameter can be ommited, then `1` (fully opaque) is used as a default.

The returned node can be mapped to view properties that represents color (e.g. [`backgroundColor`](https://facebook.github.io/react-native/docs/view-style-props.html#backgroundcolor)).

## `concat`

```js
concat(nodeOrValue1, ...)
```

Returns concatanation of given nodes (number or string) as string

## `cond`

```js
cond(conditionNode, ifNode, [elseNode]);
```

If `conditionNode` evaluates to "truthy" value the node evaluates `ifNode` node and returns its value, otherwise it evaluates `elseNode` and returns its value. `elseNode` is optional.

## `debug`

```js
debug(messageString, valueNode);
```

When the node is evaluated, it prints a string that contains the `messageString` concatenated with the value of `valueNode`. This then returns the value of `valueNode`. Logs are printed in the JS debugger if it's attached, in console if Expo client is being used, or else in the native console. Logs are visible only in `DEV` mode and have no effect on production builds. Note that `messageString` should be a normal string, not an animated node.

## `defined`

```js
defined(node);
```

Returns `1` if the given node evaluates to a "defined" value (that is to something that is non-null, non-undefined and non-NaN). Returns `0` otherwise.

## `event`

Works the same way as with the original `Animated` library.

## `interpolate`

```js
interpolate(node, {
  // Input range for the interpolation. Should be monotonically increasing.
  inputRange: [nodeOrValue...],
  // Output range for the interpolation, should be the same length as the input range.
  outputRange: [nodeOrValue...],
  // Sets the left and right extrapolate modes.
  extrapolate?: Extrapolate.EXTEND | Extrapolate.CLAMP | Extrapolate.IDENTITY,
  // Set the left extrapolate mode, the behavior if the input is less than the first value in inputRange.
  extrapolateLeft?: Extrapolate.EXTEND | Extrapolate.CLAMP | Extrapolate.IDENTITY,
  // Set the right extrapolate mode, the behavior if the input is greater than the last value in inputRange.
  extrapolateRight?: Extrapolate.EXTEND | Extrapolate.CLAMP | Extrapolate.IDENTITY,
})

Extrapolate.EXTEND; // Will extend the range linearly.
Extrapolate.CLAMP; // Will clamp the input value to the range.
Extrapolate.IDENTITY; // Will return the input value if the input value is out of range.
```

Maps an input value within a range to an output value within a range. Also supports different types of extrapolation for when the value falls outside the range.

## `onChange`

```js
onChange(value, action);
```

When evaluated, it will compare `value` to its previous value. If it has changed, `action` will be evaluated and its value will be returned.

## `proc`

Returns a callable function node that can be used to define expressions that can be called from other nodes.

Example:

```js
// Global constant
const myProc = proc((a, b) => multiply(a, b));

// In your component
const style = { width: myProc(10, 10) };
```

A proc node should be declared as a global constant in your code and not recreated from inside components.

It is not possible to reference nodes that are not passed as parameters.

## `set`

```js
set(valueToBeUpdated, sourceNode);
```

When evaluated, it will assign the value of `sourceNode` to the `Animated.Value` passed as a first argument. In other words, it performs an assignment operation from the `sourceNode` to `valueToBeUpdated` value node and also returns a node that represents this value.
