docs/docs-reanimated/docs/guides/testing-with-jest.mdx, before:

---
id: testing
sidebar_label: 'Testing with Jest'
---

import TestSrc from '!!raw-loader!@site/src/examples/TestExample.tsx';

# Testing with Jest

Reanimated provides testing API, based on Jest. It allows user to mock web-based animations.

## Reference

```js
test('reference', () => {
  // some styles

  const { getByTestId } = render(<AnimatedComponent />);
  const view = getByTestId('view');
  const button = getByTestId('button');

  // highlight-next-line
  expect(view).toHaveAnimatedStyle(style);

  fireEvent.press(button);
  jest.advanceTimersByTime(250); // if whole animation duration is a 500ms

  style.width = 50; // value of component width after 250ms of animation
  // highlight-next-line
  expect(view).toHaveAnimatedStyle(style);
});
```

## Setup

Add the following line to your `jest-setup.js` file:

```js
require('react-native-reanimated').setUpTests();
```

- `setUpTests()` can take optional config argument. Default config is `{ fps: 60 }`.

To be sure, check if your `jest.config.js` file contains:

```js
...
preset: 'react-native',
setupFilesAfterEnv: ['./jest-setup.js'],
...
```

:::caution

If you use Jest in a version **older than 28**, you should set `setupFiles` property instead of `setupFilesAfterEnv`

:::

## API

### Style checker

#### `expect(component).toHaveAnimatedStyle(expectedStyle)`

Checking equality of selected styles with current component styles.

- `component` - tested component.
- `expectedStyle` - contains expected styles of testing component, for example `{ width: 100 }`.

#### `expect(component).toHaveAnimatedStyle(expectedStyle, {shouldMatchAllProps: true})`

Checking equality of all current component styles with expected styles.

#### `expect(component).toHaveAnimatedProps(expectedProps)`

Checking equality of selected props with current component props.

- `component` - tested component.
- `expectedProps` - contains expected props of testing component, for example `{ text: 'name' }`.

#### `getDefaultStyle(component)`

Gets all styles of tested component.

### Timers

You can use Jest's fake timers to control animation progress.
Check [the full guide about mocking timers on Jest documentation website](https://jestjs.io/docs/timer-mocks).

```js
jest.useFakeTimers();
// call animation
jest.runAllTimers();
```

If you want more control over animation, you can use `jest.advanceTimersByTime` to move to a certain point in the animation:

```js
jest.useFakeTimers();
// call animation
jest.advanceTimersByTime(250);
// make assertions on what you expect the styles of a component should be after 250ms
```

## Example

<CollapsibleCode src={TestSrc} showLines={[54, 70]} />

More examples from `react-native-reanimated` repository:

- [SharedValue.test.tsx](https://github.com/software-mansion/react-native-reanimated/tree/main/packages/react-native-reanimated/__tests__/SharedValue.test.tsx)
- [Animation.test.tsx](https://github.com/software-mansion/react-native-reanimated/blob/main/packages/react-native-reanimated/__tests__/Animation.test.tsx)

## Testing `react-native-svg`

Because of how `react-native-svg` manages its props, you need to use the mock provided by Reanimated to enable testing:

```js
jest.mock('react-native-svg', () => require('react-native-reanimated/mock'));
```

## Remarks

- Tests must run with Node 16 or newer.
- If you have custom babel configuration for testing, make sure that Reanimated's babel plugin is enabled in that environment.

## Recommended testing library

- [@testing-library/react-native](https://testing-library.com/docs/react-native-testing-library/intro)
- [@testing-library/react-hooks](https://react-hooks-testing-library.com/) - for dealing with hooks

Commit message:

fix(Worklets): pulling native implementation for Jest tests (#8988)
## Summary

Fixes #8806

By default the Jest preset for React Native pulls `.native.ts` files
before `.ts` files.

`.ts` files have the Web implementation of Worklets which is safe for
testing. To not pollute `.native.ts` files with `IS_JEST` checks I
decied to add an optional Jest resolver that developers may use to
enforce the use of Web implementation in Jest.

I also amended the instructions for testing in both documentations -
Reanimated docs didn't say that Worklets have Jest setup too.

## Test plan

Jest tests pass on CI.

docs/docs-reanimated/docs/guides/testing-with-jest.mdx, after:

---
id: testing
sidebar_label: 'Testing with Jest'
---

import TestSrc from '!!raw-loader!@site/src/examples/TestExample.tsx';

# Testing with Jest

Reanimated provides testing API, based on Jest. It allows user to mock web-based animations.

## Reference

```js
test('reference', () => {
  // some styles

  const { getByTestId } = render(<AnimatedComponent />);
  const view = getByTestId('view');
  const button = getByTestId('button');

  // highlight-next-line
  expect(view).toHaveAnimatedStyle(style);

  fireEvent.press(button);
  jest.advanceTimersByTime(250); // if whole animation duration is a 500ms

  style.width = 50; // value of component width after 250ms of animation
  // highlight-next-line
  expect(view).toHaveAnimatedStyle(style);
});
```

## Setup

:::note
Before you begin, make sure to follow the respective Jest guide for [React Native Worklets](https://docs.swmansion.com/react-native-worklets/docs/guides/testing).
:::

Add the following line to your `jest-setup.js` file:

```js
require('react-native-reanimated').setUpTests();
```

- `setUpTests()` can take optional config argument. Default config is `{ fps: 60 }`.

To be sure, check if your `jest.config.js` file contains:

```js
...
preset: 'react-native',
setupFilesAfterEnv: ['./jest-setup.js'],
...
```

:::caution

If you use Jest in a version **older than 28**, you should set `setupFiles` property instead of `setupFilesAfterEnv`

:::

## API

### Style checker

#### `expect(component).toHaveAnimatedStyle(expectedStyle)`

Checking equality of selected styles with current component styles.

- `component` - tested component.
- `expectedStyle` - contains expected styles of testing component, for example `{ width: 100 }`.

#### `expect(component).toHaveAnimatedStyle(expectedStyle, {shouldMatchAllProps: true})`

Checking equality of all current component styles with expected styles.

#### `expect(component).toHaveAnimatedProps(expectedProps)`

Checking equality of selected props with current component props.

- `component` - tested component.
- `expectedProps` - contains expected props of testing component, for example `{ text: 'name' }`.

#### `getDefaultStyle(component)`

Gets all styles of tested component.

### Timers

You can use Jest's fake timers to control animation progress.
Check [the full guide about mocking timers on Jest documentation website](https://jestjs.io/docs/timer-mocks).

```js
jest.useFakeTimers();
// call animation
jest.runAllTimers();
```

If you want more control over animation, you can use `jest.advanceTimersByTime` to move to a certain point in the animation:

```js
jest.useFakeTimers();
// call animation
jest.advanceTimersByTime(250);
// make assertions on what you expect the styles of a component should be after 250ms
```

## Example

<CollapsibleCode src={TestSrc} showLines={[54, 70]} />

More examples from `react-native-reanimated` repository:

- [SharedValue.test.tsx](https://github.com/software-mansion/react-native-reanimated/tree/main/packages/react-native-reanimated/__tests__/SharedValue.test.tsx)
- [Animation.test.tsx](https://github.com/software-mansion/react-native-reanimated/blob/main/packages/react-native-reanimated/__tests__/Animation.test.tsx)

## Testing `react-native-svg`

Because of how `react-native-svg` manages its props, you need to use the mock provided by Reanimated to enable testing:

```js
jest.mock('react-native-svg', () => require('react-native-reanimated/mock'));
```

## Remarks

- Tests must run with Node 16 or newer.
- If you have custom babel configuration for testing, make sure that Reanimated's babel plugin is enabled in that environment.

## Recommended testing library

- [@testing-library/react-native](https://testing-library.com/docs/react-native-testing-library/intro)
- [@testing-library/react-hooks](https://react-hooks-testing-library.com/) - for dealing with hooks
